Now that we have downloaded our application from either GitHub or from
the exercise files underneath the URL for this course,
we can open up our pom.xml file and select the Dependencies tab at the bottom.
We need to add two dependencies inside of our application here.
Let's give it a group ID of org.springframework and
an artifact ID of spring‑jdbc.
The version should match your spring‑webmvc version of 5.2.7.RELEASE.
And click Save on that or OK,
depending on if you're on a Windows machine or an OS X or Linux box,
and that will automatically download that JAR for you.
We're going to add one more dependency inside of here.
We can click the Add button again and give it a group ID of mysql and an
artifact ID of mysql‑connector‑java and a version of 6.0.5.
Click OK.
Both of those resources should now be downloaded automatically for you,
and you can double check that by looking at your Maven
Dependencies and see that we have the connectors and JDBC
pieces inside of our application.
It will take it a minute to download if you haven't looked at yours yet.
That's why it's always a good idea to check this.
And so now we have all of those features inside of our dependencies.
We can now begin configuring the XML to talk to our database.
I'm going to close the pom.xml file and even minimize the Maven Dependencies
portion and open up the src/main/resources jdbc‑config file.
I'm going to create two XML beans inside of here.
I'm going to make this full screen so you can see it a little bit
better. And it's a lot of typing. You can grab yours out of the
XML section inside of the exercise files or out of GitHub, or you
can type it in as well.
I'm going to type it in and and explain to you what these two beans are.
The first bean is a dataSource, and that's what ties us to our
DriverManagerDataSource or our database connection.
They're kind of synonymous for one another.
We give an ID of dataSource and the class is case sensitive,
org.springframework.jdbc.datasource.DriverManagerDataSource. And it
has four properties inside of there, the class name of
com.mysql.jdbc.driver, the URL to our database.
If you look at the end of that URL, localhost:3306/ride_tracker,
that is the schema we created in the previous demo.
It has a username and password of root and password. And then on to the second
bean. It's called jdbcTemplate, and this is the bean we're going to inject in
our code and use inside of our code from here on out.
And it has a property by name of dataSource where we
pass in the reference of dataSource.
That is the dataSource we just created just up above here.
So, those two beans reference one another.
Let's walk through our application though and finally run a test.
We can exit out of full screen mode on our jdbc‑config, and when you downloaded
the source code you had a couple of packages inside of here.
We've already started going into them.
We've got our controller, model, repository, and service packages.
We start with our controller. We're going to see that we have our
RideController, and this is the entry point for our application.
It's where our URL is going to go and hit. And this has
injected into it a RideService, and that RideService is where
our business logic should reside.
So we have an interface and an implementation.
Let's open up the implementation, and you'll also see inside of here that
there is a repository that gets injected inside of here.
If we open up our repository, we're going to see the same thing,
the interface and the implementation. And inside of our implementation, this
is where we will put the SQL to interact with our database, but we can start
by injecting that template that we just created.
So I'm going to add an @Autowired private JdbcTemplate,
Jdbc camelCase'd template object inside of here. And I'll save
this, we're not going to use this just yet,
but it's set up to talk to our database.
We literally just need to start writing our JdbcTemplate queries
here, and that's what we're going to do in the next module, but
let's run a unit test against this.
So, everything's up and running here.
We can make sure our server is started, and mine is up and running,
and we can go to our src/test/java RestControllerTest, and if we
right‑click on this and say Run As, JUnit Test,
which should be one of your options, you can see that it will go
through and run and it executes and comes back to the screen and
the Ride name: Corner Canyon is there,
which is exactly what's being returned from our ride repository.
So we just did a bunch of stuff there.
Let's look at that really quick.
Let's kind of recap what we've gone over.
So, we started off by adding some dependencies to our POM and we had our
Spring JDBC dependency, as well as our MySQL connector.
From there, we went to our jdbc‑config and added a
dataSource and our jdbcTemplate beans.
We walked through our controller, which has the RideService autowired into
it, the service, which has the repository wired into it, and then we added
our JdbcTemplate to our rideRepository as well.
And then we went ahead and executed our unit test, and that went
through all of the tiers of our application,
it went clear through our web service and our web front end, clear to the
back end and back out to our unit test and made that roundtrip. Successful
roundtrip, whether it was localhost or hosted on a remote server, we actually made that complete roundtrip lifecycle.